The test of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Ivanhoe, by Walter Scott is performed right now

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away ARRRR
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at wiki


Title: Ivanhoe
       A Romance

Author: Walter Scott

Posting Date: June 25, 2008 [EBook #82]
Release Date: September, 1993
Last updated: August 30, 2016

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IVANHOE ***

Thomas


Produced by John P. Roberts, Jr.

ASD

DSD

IVANHOE

A ROMANCE

By Sir Walter Scott

     Now fitted the halter, now traversed the cart,
     And often took leave,--but seemed loath to depart! [1]
     --Prior.




INTRODUCTION TO SPP.


The Author of the Waverley Novels had hitherto proceeded in an unabated
course of popularity, and might, in his peculiar district of literature,
have been termed “L’Enfant Gate” of success. It was plain, however, that
frequent publication must finally wear out the public favour, unless
some mode could be devised to give an appearance of novelty to
subsequent productions. Scottish manners, Scottish dialect, and
Scottish characters of note, being those with which the author was most
intimately, and familiarly acquainted, were the groundwork upon which he
had hitherto relied for giving effect to his narrative. It was, however,
obvious, that this kind of interest must in the end occasion a degree of
sameness and repetition, if exclusively resorted to, and that the reader
was likely at length to adopt the language of Edwin, in Parnell’s Tale:

“‘Reverse the code,’ he cries, ‘And let it fairly now suffice. The
gambol has been shown.’”

Nothing can be more dangerous for the fame of a professor of the fine
arts, than to permit (if he can possibly prevent it) the character of a
mannerist to be attached to him, or that he should be supposed capable
of success only in a particular and limited style. The public are, in
general, very ready to adopt the opinion, that he who has pleased them
in one peculiar mode of composition, is, by means of that very talent,
rendered incapable of venturing upon other subjects. The effect of this
disinclination, on the part of the public, towards the artificers of
their pleasures, when they attempt to enlarge their means of amusing,
may be seen in the censures usually passed by vulgar criticism upon
actors or artists who venture to change the character of their efforts,
that, in so doing, they may enlarge the scale of their art.

There is some justice in this opinion, as there always is in such as
attain general currency. It may often happen on the stage, that an
actor, by possessing in a preeminent degree the external qualities
necessary to give effect to comedy, may be deprived of the right to
aspire to tragic excellence; and in painting or literary composition, an
artist or poet may be master exclusively of modes of thought, and powers
of expression, which confine him to a single course of subjects. But
much more frequently the same capacity which carries a man to popularity
in one department will obtain for him success in another, and that must
be more particularly the case in literary composition, than either in
acting or painting, because the adventurer in that department is not
impeded in his exertions by any peculiarity of features, or conformation
of person, proper for particular parts, or, by any peculiar mechanical
habits of using the pencil, limited to a particular class of subjects.
